Good morning, everyone.
This Morning Worship program is originating
from world headquarters at Warwick, New York.
And, brothers and sisters,
it’s a real privilege and pleasure
to speak to all of you on this special day
when we observe the Memorial
of the death of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Today’s text will remind us
of the unjust treatment
that he suffered at the hands of sinners.
And we have Brother William Malenfant here;
Bill is a helper to the Teaching Committee.
Bill, will you read the text for us, please?
Friday, April the 19th
—the Memorial date after sundown.
The text is taken from Psalm 118:22:
“The stone that the builders rejected
has become the chief cornerstone.”
Thank you, Bill.
Although Jesus was rejected
by the leaders of the Jewish nation,
what got into him
was having Jehovah’s approval.
You know, I love the way
the apostle Peter put it
according to 1 Peter 2:4.
Peter said that Jesus
was ‘rejected by men
but precious to God.’
Isn’t that nice?
Now, if you’re the type of person
who gets a little bit upset
when you’re rejected at the doors
(maybe someone slams a door in your face),
why not just think about this phrase
—‘rejected by men but precious to God’?
Memorize it:
‘rejected by men but precious to God.’
And then think about it; it’ll help.
Now, speaking of the ministry,
I thought I’d focus the rest of my comments
on the important work we all have to do today
—to invite as many as possible to the Memorial.
If you have time off from work today,
no doubt you’ll be sharing in the ministry.
And that’s what Bethel family members
all over the world are going to be doing today.
But whether you have time off or not,
there are things you can do to make sure
that as many as possible
are in attendance tonight.
If you have to go to work or to school,
why not talk to a workmate or a schoolmate
who you think would be willing
to attend the Memorial?
You might be happy at the outcome.
And don’t forget to get in touch
with your Bible students and return visits today.
I’m going to repeat that.
Don’t forget to get in touch
with your Bible students and return visits today,
even if you’ve already invited them
to the Memorial.
Why?
Well, your return visits
might have misplaced the invitation,
and perhaps they’ve forgotten what day it is.
All right, those are the return visits,
but what about our Bible students?
Sometimes we take it for granted
that such and such a Bible student
is going to be there, and he doesn’t show up.
And later, we learn that he allowed
some trivial matter
to interfere with his attendance.
A little extra encouragement won’t hurt.
Now, what about those who
used to associate with us but who are inactive?
It seems to me that they fall into two categories.
You have some
who would never miss the Memorial;
they appreciate what Christ
has done, and they’re there.
And we love them,
and we’re so glad to see them.
And then there’s a second group
who may feel that it’s hypocritical on their part
to attend the Memorial because they’ve missed
every other meeting during the year.
Well, they have to start somewhere, don’t they?
So we want to give them
loving reassurance
and a warm invitation to come.
And don’t forget unbelieving husbands
who might respond better to an invitation
from an outsider than from their wife.
Friends, don’t underestimate the value
of a brief visit or a phone call
to an inactive person.
Some time ago, on the day of the Memorial,
the visiting speaker
and the coordinator of the body of elders
paid a visit to a brother who was inactive.
Now, that brother hadn’t attended a meeting
for 15 years, and yet before that,
he had been very active in the truth.
In fact, he’d enjoyed
many privileges in the organization.
What did the brothers do?
They simply listened as the brother relived
the experiences
he’d enjoyed when he was active,
and at the end of the conversation,
they simply said:
“We’d love to see you at the Memorial.
Won’t you come?”
The brother came.
Now, most in the congregation
didn’t know who he was,
but they gave him a warm welcome.
And you know what?
That was all it took.
That brother never looked back.
He was faithful to Jehovah for the rest of his life.
But now what about some of you dear ones
who have been asked to work secularly tonight?
You may be new on the job,
and maybe your boss
has the reputation for being a bit inflexible.
You might say, ‘He’d never give me the time off.’
What to do?
Why not approach Jehovah in earnest prayer?
Tell him how you feel.
Ask him to touch the heart of your boss,
and ask him to help you
to present your request respectfully
and in an appealing way.
You might be surprised at the outcome.
Jehovah’s servants
have always taken the Memorial seriously.
Our brothers and sisters
even observed it in concentration camps
and labor camps,
such as this one in Mordoviya.
Following that pattern,
in our day, our young brothers
who were imprisoned in Korea
didn’t allow prison bars
to prevent them from keeping the festival.
In parts of Africa, interested ones
may have to travel long distances
to get to the village or the city
where the Memorial is going to be observed.
In Tanzania, a Bible student moved
to a remote area
where there was no congregation.
The nearest congregation
was more than 60 miles (97 km) away.
Now, to those in Western lands,
that may not seem like much,
but in the area where he lived,
that was going to require
a grueling eight-hour bus trip.
Why?
Number one: The roads were bad.
Number two: The bus made a lot of stops.
But he was there.
And after the meeting,
the man pleaded with the brothers to visit him
at least once a month
so he could continue his studies.
Well, that man had put forth an effort
to attend the Memorial,
so the congregation had to reciprocate.
And a few weeks later,
a special pioneer couple visited him.
To their surprise, they found that the student
was already studying
with 17 other people in the village.
How important is it to attend the Memorial?
In Congo, a traveling overseer and his wife
showed great determination to observe it.
They had to travel on a very bad road
to a congregation
where the Memorial was going to be observed,
and the road was so bad that the motorcycle
they were riding on broke down.
There was a defective part
and no replacement available.
So the traveling overseer
and his wife were stuck.
They were going to have to observe
the Memorial right there,
at an unfamiliar village.
But there was a problem
—no congregation and no brothers.
Undeterred, the brother went to the village chief
and explained the importance of the occasion,
and the chief responded.
He allowed the brother
to observe the Memorial on his property,
and he even commissioned
some young men to clean the place up
and build a platform for the speaker.
So now the location was ready,
but you have to have an audience.
Well, the couple had invitations,
and these were distributed in the village.
And as a result,
80 villagers attended the Memorial.
Now, of course,
what’s a Memorial without music, without songs?
These people were not Witnesses;
they didn’t know our songs.
But the traveling overseer’s wife
was a good singer,
and so she helped the audience
to sing the two Memorial songs.
Speaking of Africa, in Liberia,
a congregation of 130
decided that they
were going to do everything in their power
to invite many, many people to the Memorial.
So in the days leading up to the Memorial,
eight publishers worked
from nine o’clock in the morning
till six o’clock at night distributing invitations.
Now, the Memorial was held in an open field.
And do you know how many attended?
a congregation of 130?
Three thousand four hundred and ten.
In many places in Africa, it’s common
for a congregation of a hundred or more
to have an attendance into the thousands.
Well, you might say, ‘All right, that’s Africa,
but in our congregation,
we’re not going to have a thousand people.’
But you are going to work just as hard
as our African brothers do,
and Jehovah is going to bless you
just the same as he has blessed them.
In addition to inviting interested ones,
there is another thing all of us can do
to get ready for the Memorial.
At 1 Corinthians 5:8, Paul wrote in part:
‘So, then, let us keep the festival
with sincerity and truth.’
Now, whether we’re
of the anointed or of the great crowd,
all of us should examine ourselves now
to see if we can do more
to be pleasing to Jehovah.
Are we holding a grudge
against a brother or a sister?
Now would be a good time to let it go.
Are we allowing some bad habit
to hold us back from making spiritual progress?
Now would be an excellent time
to take decisive action against it.
“Keep doing this in remembrance of me.”
That’s a command
Jehovah’s Witnesses take very seriously.
So our prayer is
that Jehovah will bless your zealous efforts
to invite others to join us.
Now, Bill, will you please read today’s comment
from Examining the Scriptures?
“‘The builders,’ the Jewish leaders,
rejected the Messiah.
“Their rejection was far more than
just turning their backs on Jesus
“or refusing to accept him as the Christ.
“Many Jews rejected him
to the point of clamoring for his death.
“Yes, they contributed to Jesus’ being killed.
“If Jesus was rejected and killed,
“how could he become ‘the chief cornerstone’?
“That could come about only
“by his being resurrected to life again.
“The apostle Peter spoke
of ‘Jesus Christ the Nazarene,
“‘whom you executed on a stake
“but whom God raised up from the dead.’
“This resurrected Son thus became the only one
“whose name
was ‘given among men
by which we must get saved.’”
Now please follow along
as we enjoy today’s recorded Bible reading.
“On the first day of the Unleavened Bread,
“the disciples came to Jesus, saying:
“‘Where do you want us to prepare
for you to eat the Passover?’
“He said: ‘Go into the city to So-and-so
“‘and say to him, “The Teacher says:
“‘“My appointed time is near;
“I will celebrate the Passover
with my disciples at your home.”’
So the disciples did as Jesus
instructed them and prepared for the Passover.”
“The day of the Unleavened Bread now arrived,
“on which
the Passover sacrifice must be offered;
“so Jesus sent Peter and John, saying:
“‘Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.’
“They said to him:
‘Where do you want us to get it ready?’
“He said to them:
‘Look! When you enter into the city,
“‘a man carrying
an earthenware water jar will meet you.
“‘Follow him into the house that he enters.
“‘And say to the landlord of the house,
“‘“The Teacher says to you:
‘Where is the guest room
“‘where I may eat
the Passover with my disciples?’”
“‘And that man will show you
a large, furnished upper room.
“Get it ready there.’
“So they left and found it
just as he had told them,
and they prepared for the Passover.”
“When evening came,
“he was reclining
at the table with the 12 disciples.
“While they were eating, he said:
“‘Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me.’
“Being very much grieved at this,
“each and every one began to say to him:
“‘Lord, it is not I, is it?’
“In reply he said:
“‘The one who dips his hand with me
into the bowl
“‘is the one who will betray me.
“‘True, the Son of man is going away,
“‘just as it is written about him,
“‘but woe to that man
through whom the Son of man is betrayed!
“It would have been better
for that man if he had not been born.’
“Judas, who was about to betray him, replied:
“‘It is not I, is it, Rabbi?’
“Jesus said to him: ‘You yourself said it.’
“As they continued eating, Jesus took a loaf,
“and after saying a blessing, he broke it,
“and giving it to the disciples, he said:
“‘Take, eat. This means my body.’
“And taking a cup, he offered thanks
and gave it to them, saying:
“‘Drink out of it, all of you,
“‘for this means my “blood of the covenant,”
“‘which is to be poured out
in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.
“‘But I say to you: I will by no means drink again
“‘any of this product of the vine until that day
“when I drink it new
with you in the Kingdom of my Father.’
“Finally, after singing praises,
they went out to the Mount of Olives.
“Then Jesus said to them:
‘All of you will be stumbled
“‘in connection with me
on this night, for it is written:
“‘“I will strike the shepherd,
“‘and the sheep of the flock
will be scattered about.”
“‘But after I have been raised up,
“I will go ahead of you into Galilee.’
“But Peter, in response, said to him:
“‘Although all the others are stumbled
in connection with you, I will never be stumbled!’
“Jesus said to him: ‘Truly I say to you,
“‘on this night, before a rooster crows,
“you will disown me three times.’
“Peter said to him:
‘Even if I should have to die with you,
“I will by no means disown you.’
“All the other disciples also said the same thing.
“Then Jesus came with them
to the spot called Gethsemane,
“and he said to the disciples:
“‘Sit down here while I go over there and pray.’
“And taking along Peter
and the two sons of Zebʹe·dee,
“he began to feel grieved
and to be greatly troubled.
“Then he said to them:
“‘I am deeply grieved, even to death.
“Stay here and keep on the watch with me.’
“And going a little way forward,
he fell facedown, praying:
“‘My Father, if it is possible,
“‘let this cup pass away from me.
“Yet, not as I will, but as you will.’
“He returned to the disciples
and found them sleeping,
“and he said to Peter:
“‘Could you not so much as
keep on the watch for one hour with me?
“‘Keep on the watch and pray continually,
“‘so that you may not enter into temptation.
“The spirit, of course,
is eager, but the flesh is weak.’
“Again, a second time, he went off and prayed:
“‘My Father, if it is not possible
“‘for this to pass away
unless I drink it,
“let your will take place.’
“And he came again and found them sleeping,
“for their eyes were heavy.
“So leaving them,
he again went off and prayed for a third time,
“saying once more the same thing.
“Then he returned
to the disciples and said to them:
“‘At such a time as this,
you are sleeping and resting!
“‘Look! The hour
has drawn near for the Son of man
“‘to be betrayed into the hands of sinners.
“‘Get up, let us go.
“Look! My betrayer has drawn near.’
“While he was still speaking,
look! Judas, one of the Twelve, came
“and with him
a large crowd with swords and clubs,
“sent from the chief priests
and the elders of the people.
“Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying:
“‘Whoever it is I kiss, he is the one;
“take him into custody.’
“And going straight up to Jesus, he said:
“‘Greetings, Rabbi!’
“and gave him a tender kiss.
“But Jesus said to him:
“‘Fellow, for what purpose are you present?’
“Then they came forward
and seized Jesus and took him into custody.
“But look!
one of those with Jesus reached out his hand
“and drew his sword and struck the slave
“of the high priest, taking off his ear.
“Then Jesus said to him:
“‘Return your sword to its place,
“‘for all those who take up the sword
will perish by the sword.
“‘Or do you think
that I cannot appeal to my Father
“‘to supply me at this moment
more than 12 legions of angels?
“‘In that case,
how would the Scriptures be fulfilled
“that say it must take place this way?’
“In that hour Jesus said to the crowds:
“‘Did you come out to arrest me
with swords and clubs as against a robber?
“‘Day after day
I used to sit in the temple teaching,
“‘and yet you did not take me into custody.
“‘But all of this has taken place
“for the writings of the prophets to be fulfilled.’
Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.”
It’s a joy to be associated with you.
And on behalf of the Governing Body,
I’d like to wish all of you a successful day
in Jehovah’s service
and a blessed Memorial observance tonight.
Be assured that we love you all very much.
Now, let’s all get busy and see what we can do
to invite as many as possible to the Memorial.